Add new feature release, allow deep links to contribute (#639)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/core/releases/feature_releases.md

---
title: "Feature Releases"
linkTitle: "Feature Releases"
weight: 2

> no_list: true

Reviewer: Is the `no_list` needed here?

description: >
    Feature Releases for the CHT Core Framework
relatedContent: >
    core/releases
    contribute#are-you-a-partner-wondering-how-issues-are-prioritized
    
---

> The Product Team has two dedicated sub-teams (Allies and Care) who try to deliver much requested features at a pace that is faster than our release cycle. To this end, select partners working directly with Product Team can access what are called "Feature Releases". 

Reviewer 2: I think Care should be Care Teams but if this has officially changed then ignore me!

```suggestion
The Product Team has two dedicated sub-teams (Allies and Care Teams) who try to deliver much requested features at a pace that is faster than our release cycle. To this end, select partners working directly with Product Team can access what are called "Feature Releases". 
```

Author: agreed!

> The Product Team has two dedicated sub-teams (Allies and Care Teams) who try to deliver the most impactful features at a pace that is faster than our regular release cycle. To this end, select partners working directly with the Product Team can access what are called "Feature Releases". 

Reviewer: Given the broader audience of the docs site this intro needs some more context, and here's a suggestion that may provide higher level intro without getting into internal processes.

```suggestion
To build and iterate on new features at a pace that is faster than our regular release cycle, some features are released in a _Feature Release_. Feature Releases are based on the most recent release and only include improvements related to a feature being developed. These releases are tested to be production-ready so that new features can be studied with CHT partners in a live deployment, with the aim of getting the feature ready for wider use in an upcoming release.
```

## Release names

> Each Feature Releases will be a production ready branch of the most recent release of the CHT. The release will have undergone applicable discretionary testing. You can easily identify a Feature Release by its version which follows the pattern of `LATES_RELEASE-FR-FEATURE`. For example, if the latest release is `3.10.1` then the Feature Releases for speedier upgrades would be `3.10.1-FR-speedier-upgrades`. When this feature is found to be of use, it would be automatically included in `3.10.2`, the next minor release after `3.10.1`.

Reviewer 2: Typo, but also, the next minor would be "3.11.0" not "3.10.2" which is the patch/service pack release.

```suggestion
Each Feature Releases will be a production ready branch of the most recent release of the CHT. The release will have undergone applicable discretionary testing. You can easily identify a Feature Release by its version which follows the pattern of `LATEST_RELEASE-FR-FEATURE`. For example, if the latest release is `3.10.1` then the Feature Releases for speedier upgrades would be `3.10.1-FR-speedier-upgrades`. When this feature is found to be of use, it would be automatically included in `3.11.0`, the next minor release after `3.10.1`.
```

Author: ah - right right - good catch!

> Each Feature Release will be a production-ready branch of the most recent release of the CHT. The release will have undergone applicable discretionary testing. You can easily identify a Feature Release by its version which follows the pattern of `LATEST_RELEASE-FR-FEATURE`. For example, if the latest release is `3.10.1` then the Feature Release for speedier upgrades would be `3.10.1-FR-speedier-upgrades`. When this feature is found to be of use, it would be automatically included in `3.11.0`, the next minor release after `3.10.1`.

Reviewer: Some suggestions:
- Italicize the first use of _Feature Release_, as [per style guide](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/docs/style-guide/#italics-to-define-or-introduce-new-terms) ([and APA](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/italics-quotations/italics))
- It's not clear what "applicable discretionary testing" means. It sounds like a fancy way of saying we'll do the testing we think is necessary... can we find a simpler way to say that, or specify what testing will be done? I've made a suggestion with simpler language, feel free to improve.
- I thought the pattern for version could be clearer by showing the variable parts.
- As discussed on call, we don't know by which version a feature will be ready to be introduced. I've simplified the text, but open to other suggestions.

```suggestion
Each _Feature Release_ is a production-ready release based on a recent release of the CHT that has gone through the necessary testing. You can easily identify a Feature Release by its version, which follows the pattern of `{BASE-RELEASE-NUMBER}-FR-{FEATURE-NAME}`. For example, if the latest release is `3.10.1` then the Feature Release for speedier upgrades would be `3.10.1-FR-speedier-upgrades`. When this feature is found to be successful and ready for wider distribution it will be included in the next release.
```

Author: Yeah - looks good - thanks for the input!  

That said @craig-landry really liked the phrase "discretionary testing".  Are you OK with @abbyad's suggestion to remove it?

Reviewer 3: Yep, I agree that "discretionary testing" is another way of saying "we're going to test it as we see fit"
I liked "discretionary" since it's a short way to say "we'll do the testing we think is necessary". I'm cool with alternatives, I just haven't heard anything I liked better than that. I'm probably fine with whatever other suggestions people have though.

To the point of a suggestion, I don't see it here as part of this suggestion though; instead it looks to be omitted. Was that the intention or am I missing it somewhere else?

Author: chatted w/ @craig-landry  - we're good to go as is - but acknowledging we might revisit to add explicit wording around how much we test.

## Upgrades

> Feature releases are always built on the latest version of the CHT.  They will always support an easy upgrade to the next minor or patch release of the CHT.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we can guarantee easy upgrade as the next minor might be a major, and they can't upgrade to the next patch because they would lose the feature. What about...

```suggestion
Feature releases are always built on the latest version of the CHT. Once the feature is ready, it will be included in a regular CHT release and the project will be upgraded as soon as practical to get back on to a fully supported release.
```

Author: works for me

> Feature releases are always built on the latest version of the CHT. Once the feature is ready, it will be included in a regular CHT release and the project will be upgraded as soon as practical to get back on to a fully supported release.

Author: I think this was actually @garethbowen's wording ;)  Teamwork FTW!
